well families of German hostages who
were taken in the H mastera Terror
attacks have traveled to Berlin to put
pressure on the government to take more
action Chancellor Schultz met some of
them in Israel earlier and their
entreaties have been
heartfelt my
sister she's a very very ill
woman in this picture here she's
knitting heads for new born babies in
all
margarite Moses was kidnapped by Hamas
terrorists along with five other family
members their relatives have come to
Germany to keep pressure on the
government
here
here this is Mr Schultz and
me and I told him we don't want to
interfere the German
politics but but you have to do
something the attacks have left them
with sleepless nights and endless
thoughts about their loved
ones our mission
here
is to try our
best that Germany will react against the
terror and not only show their
sympathy that doesn't help
we need
now
walk and not
sympathy Gard Conrad is a former German
intelligence officer he's had experience
mediating between Israel and Hamas he
believes it's likely that the hostages
that the hostages are being held
underground uh to our likelihood they
will be held in safe places uh
underneath that means in the tunnel
system of Gaza uh distributed possibly
nowadays in the view of a forthcoming
Ground Forces operation in the north of
Gaza possibly more in the South than in
the north but not in one place that
would be unlikely uh and they will be
placed in order to protect their
abductors the hostage takers in first of
all explain to us what you what do you
mean by that they will be placed to
protect their
abductors that means in the proximity
that means in the proximity of uh let's
say decision making um people of of
Hamas that trans military leadership
political leadership as far as they are
in Gaza uh that means uh if you want to
hit them you risk hitting the hostages
so we're back to this this uh notorious
Hamas use of of human Shields and again
we can only we can only speculate but
you're pretty sure there still inside
the territory they won't have been uh
taken
away that would be uh quite outlandish
uh because that would assume that the
Hamas would have been able to smuggle
them out via a tunnel to Egyptian
territory there are no other options
right and the
practicalities of looking after a so
many babies children women the elderly
one of whom a holocaust Survivor the the
practicalities of looking after them in
such stressful
circumstances that is to all likelihood
a challenge on the one hand on the other
hand we could assume that Hamas is
looking very well uh after themselves
that means they are privileged in terms
of uh food in terms of Beverages and so
on they won't share the same fate as
their fellow Palestinians uh uh above uh
so
it should be possible for them although
I could imagine that um caring for the
most vulnerable uh persons among the
hostages might be a challenge might be
as well a reason for hopefully releasing
them earlier than all the others right
and are we clear what Hamas wants in
order for the hostages to be
released uh in in Prin yes although we
will have to ask ourselves whether Hamas
ever expected to have 200 roughly 200
hostages because um and of course such a
diverse let's say group of hostages
being having bals uh from quite a number
of uh international country
International actors countries foreign
countries so um let's say the first aim
now is just to keep them in order to to
to safeguard their own lives that means
Hamas abductor lives the second aim
might be then to uh negotiate uh or to
enforce a kind of not benign but
acceptable outcome of the war for them
for Hamas and the third one if they
achieve that is of course to negotiate
uh within the Frameworks we know the
release of the maximum number of
Palestinian prisoners in Israel and you
know there are let's say 4,500 or
possibly 6,000 we don't know um and they
will for sure ask demand uh to have them
released all of them
okay we again speculate for us how do
negotiations begin who talks to whom and
how especially when both sides have said
we will not
talk well that's uh that's true for the
moment of course nobody will talk now as
long as the guns have have not yet
Fallen silent there so that
means in the end uh if there is no way
to to in to enforce their release and as
you know this is quite a challenge to
say the very least um then uh in the end
there will be negotiations uh indirect
ones of course mediated to our
likelihood by Egypt because Egypt
maintains the channels to both
sides can we look at your own personal
experience uh with the Israeli soldier
gillad shal shalet Hamas held him for 5
years even rejecting requests from the
Red Cross to visit him to check on his
welfare when you worked on those negot
negotiations what was the Breakthrough
what was the thing that made you think
now we're starting to get
somewhere
well as I said the if if War uh one day
is over then Hamas if it still exists
this is one of the question the question
is who will then be the negotiating side
from Hamas but let's assume someone will
be left and the and if the hostages are
there as well someone will have to
decide uh how to uh release them and if
Hamas or a successor has still a kind of
power negotiation power they will do
that
and the the time to speak will come uh
when Hamas or its successor or
whosoever gives a kind of signal we
don't know we are not aware whether
there are some tentative back channels
maybe uh uh on a on Purely humanitarian
grounds that might be might be a first
attempt I don't know people countries
governments sometimes indicate that they
are exercising their utmost efforts to
do so this might be just talk I hope uh
there is something behind of that but at
the time being uh as I said Hamas will
insist as long as it exists to get the
kind of guarantees uh for their own
Survival first basic line and the second
one uh is to uh demand the maximum of
concessions from the side that's the
framework whether the framework can be
upheld that's a question thank you so
much mediator hostage negotiator Conrad
Gart Conrad thank
you thank
you Germany's president has met the
families of German hostages being held
by Hamas Frank valter steinm expressed
his solidarity and tried to reassure
them it's important for me to have you
here today as ter president and to tell
you you belong to us We Stand By Your
Side in these terrible hour
and we are doing everything in our power
to I can assure you and you have already
heard it from the
chancellor that the German government is
doing everything in its power to secure
the release of your loved ones and we
are in close contact with all the key
players in the region and also Beyond
it well our senior political analyst
Melinda crane gave me her assessment of
the German president's
address deep empathy uh there at the
beginning for the individual uh families
and uh and uh very personal uh
expression of compassion and sorrow from
the president and then toward the end a
a a very very powerful condemnation of
anti-Semitic attacks uh we have seen
anti-semitic uh incidents uh on the rise
since Hamas uh attack against Israel and
a very very strong statement there from
the president that this will not be
tolerated that as important as freedom
of expression is it does not include the
right to denigrate Jews the right to
express anti-semitic hatred that every
person who lives here must know what
aitz was about must know the history of
the Holocaust and that that is a civic
duty of all who live here and that
Germany does not discriminate on the
basis of religion and will not tolerate
any such thing now all of this comes
with the background of these protests
that we have seen that were not simply
protests uh expressing support or
solidarity with Palestinian civilians
but that went be far beyond that to
express anti Semitic sentiments and this
is uh as he said something that Germany
cannot and will not tolerate because as
he as he mentioned the founding of the
state of Israel is essentially part of
the history of the Federal Republic of
Germany due to Germany's uh
responsibility for the Holocaust and
therefore um need for very very strong
action here and I thought particularly
those closing words that will be a
message that will be welcomed by many
here in Germany who have been horrified
to see for example Molotov cocktails
thrown at a synagogue not far from where
you and I are sitting at this moment
just this week that is a very terrible
reminder of course of of the incidents
that led up to World War II and the
Holocaust and um and for anyone who has
followed Germany's attempts to deal with
that painful history uh it will be as he
said deep disgracing and shaming thank
you for that Melinda Melinda crane is
DW's senior political analyst thank
you